---
layout: post
title: Practica 5 - Monte Carlo Laser Localization
---

**Disclaimer**: All this test was run using a 13th Gen Intel® Core™ i9-13900HX × 32 and not using Unibotics, so the results may vary depending on the build of your system.

For this excercise I did not use Unibotics, because I couldn't make it work properly and also because it didn't work properly at the beggining, so I choose to keep coding in standard python and using the libraries provided by the teachers for us.

But using this libraries was not as simple as just using them, some features didn't work as expected, such as the laser, but not being able to use Unibotics made me remove some things that should have been added.

For example, one of the things that I couldn't implement was the movement. I just couldn't get reliable laser data from the HAL API, as this was different to the one used by Unibotics, so I decided to stick with the default movementa that we were provided, a basic circle. This solved the issue of clipping through the walls, but created another big one.

<video src="../images/Clipping.mp4" controls title="Go through walls"></video>

This new problem was also created by the fact that I used 300 particles instead of a higher number of them, doing the last part would have solved it, but as you can see in the video below it doesn't run very well, as it takes a lot of time to proccess that many particles.

<video src="../images/1000Particulas.mp4" controls title="1000 Particulas"></video>

So the solution I ended up using was the following: if the 'precission' of the laser data is too low after 20 seconds, maybe we are not in the optimal position or maybe because I used only 300 particles we have encounter a local minimum, so we reset all the particles hoping to create a good aproximation next time. You can see how it works in this videos:

Changing particles:

<video src="../images/Reset.mp4" controls title="Reset particles"></video>

Founding a local minimum:

<video src="../images/MinLocal.mp4" controls title="Local Minimum"></video>

Entire proccess:

<video src="../images/300ParticulasLargo.mp4" controls title="300 particles"></video>


So with this problem solved I could keep the movement being basic and the number of particles being low, but in the end it obtains a really good aproximation of the actual position of the robot. This can also be seen in the terminal and enabling the option in the code to show the position instead of the particles.

<video src="../images/Position.mp4" controls title="Position"></video>


And this is the video showing how it works with 300 particles:

<video src="../images/300ParticulasCorto.mp4" controls title="300 particles final"></video>
